Until this point, we've talked about the governance role mostly as
a conduit between the security function and business leaders and employees.
But the role does play a critical function in supporting operational security.
I've mentioned it earlier during my example of the web filtering technology.
Governance is responsible for providing oversight as it
relates to the effectiveness of operational security controls.
Let me oversimplify the objectives for just a moment,
to illustrate that governance goal.
Governance is generally not concerned with why a control exists.
It doesn't talk about how the control addresses risk or compliance.
It takes a more binary approach.
It does care about what the control is and how it's supposed to function.
I oversimplified before.
Let's get a little more exacting.
Ideally, security controls are being measured against whether they're
accomplishing their intended objective in both function and time.
Earlier, I said that a governance professional is not concerned with risk management.
What I meant by that is that they're not concerned with the assessment of risk.
What they are concerned with is,
does the control appropriately address the risk it was intended to address?
In other words, they don't care about the risk being high or low,
they do care if mitigation requires a control to do X,
that the control effectively delivers X.
That is the measuring control function.
Before we talk about time,
let's recap for a second on security controls.
We have detective controls.
Those are the controls that detect security issues.
Preventive controls, they're designed to block behavior before it creates an issue;
and reactive, which are designed to allow for rapid reaction,
once an issue is actually detected.
When we talk about measuring controls and function at a macro level,
I am referring to these categories.
For instance, if you're measuring traditional firewall behavior,
meaning blocking or allowing ports,
we think of that as preventive.
At a more granular level,
governance professionals are measuring
whether their preventive behavior functions as it should.
Thinking about that same firewall,
if it's intended to block any traffic other than traffic originating on port 443,
that function is what we need to measure is the firewall
preventing traffic other than on port 443?
The other half of the control measurement process is time.
What I mean by time is,
does the control act within the time for which it was specified to act?
So some examples here.
Is it supposed to work continuously?
Is the control supposed to be always on? Is it event-driven?
Is the control suppose to take action when something else happens first
or does it happen exactly at a specific time or within some specified time period.
Let's look at our firewall again.
The firewall only allows traffic over port 443.
That sounds continuous to me.
There's not a time qualifier.
What if the firewall is suppose to detect traffic over port
443 from a specific IP address and then send an alert?
That sounds event-driven to me.
What if those policies are suppose to be reviewed every Friday at 5:00 PM?
That's a specific time.
If the firewall policies are suppose to be reviewed once per week,
that's within a specified time period.